@chapter Output Devices
@c man begin OUTPUT DEVICES

Output devices are configured elements in Libav which allow to write
multimedia data to an output device attached to your system.

When you configure your Libav build, all the supported output devices
are enabled by default. You can list all available ones using the
configure option "--list-outdevs".

You can disable all the output devices using the configure option
"--disable-outdevs", and selectively enable an output device using the
option "--enable-outdev=@var{OUTDEV}", or you can disable a particular
input device using the option "--disable-outdev=@var{OUTDEV}".

The option "-formats" of the av* tools will display the list of
enabled output devices (amongst the muxers).

A description of the currently available output devices follows.

@section alsa

ALSA (Advanced Linux Sound Architecture) output device.

@section fbdev

Linux framebuffer output device.

The Linux framebuffer is a graphic hardware-independent abstraction
layer to show graphics on a computer monitor, typically on the
console. It is accessed through a file device node, usually
@file{/dev/fb0}.

For more detailed information read the file
@file{Documentation/fb/framebuffer.txt} included in the Linux source tree.

@subsection Options
@table @option

@item xoffset
@item yoffset
Set x/y coordinate of top left corner. Default is 0.
@end table

@subsection Examples
Play a file on framebuffer device @file{/dev/fb0}.
Required pixel format depends on current framebuffer settings.
@example
ffmpeg -re -i INPUT -vcodec rawvideo -pix_fmt bgra -f fbdev /dev/fb0
@end example

See also @url{http://linux-fbdev.sourceforge.net/}, and fbset(1).

@section oss

OSS (Open Sound System) output device.

@section sndio

sndio audio output device.

@c man end OUTPUT DEVICES
